=== Reckless Pillager, a roguelike ===


In this game you play as a pillager, who stole the sword of the Last Emperor
of the accursed capital from his grave, and is trying to escape the dead city.
However, it seems that once you picked up the heirloom, the ghostly ruins came
alive with illusions and monsters. Now, you will have to navigate through
mazes, fight monsters and solve puzzles in order to escape with the prize. 
Fortunately, the sword that you now wield is a grand weapon indeed, and seems
to have some unusual magical abilities, that might aid you in your escape.

== General description ==

The view is top down, and the player proceeds through a series of maze-like
rooms. At first the player does not see the layout of the room, but it gets
revealed to him as he proceeds. However, he does not see points of interest,
loot or enemies unless he has line of sight to them. The player has 3 stats:
hp, mana and stamina, and 3 characteristics: strength, agility and intelligence.
The loot that the hero may pick up, include: health potion, mana potion,
key (of different types), stat upgrade crystal, char upgrade crystal. The 
player may encounter enemies, and then the game switches to a turn based battle
mode, where the player may choose between different types of attack moves,
defensive moves, potions or spells, granted to him by the sword. Different moves
scale from different characteristics. At the end of each room the hero can
unlock one additional move. The enemies can also attack and defend, and use 
spells and special moves. There are also 4 status effects: bleed, poison, stun
and fatigue, which can persist for some time after a battle.
There are also non-battle encounters with creatures and puzzles of the capital,
which play out in the shape of dialogues.

The goal of the game is to traverse a certain number of rooms, and leave the
city alive.

== Map & Movement ==
The map of a room is a rectangle of tiles with walls as borders, one entry and
one exit. Different images mean different terrain types, items or 
encounter types. The different terrain types are: plain ground (walkable), walls
(impenetrable), water, fire, different liquids spilled on the ground giving
various status effects, and void (where you can fall down into the abyss). 
There are also static encounter and battle zones, which can be seen on the map.
When the player enters such a zone, an encounter or a battle starts, and once
it is finished, if the player is still alive, he well be returned to the same 
spot. There are also doors and gates, which can be open or closed, loot items 
scattered across the floor, traps, levers and switches 
and there might be some special decorative non-interactive terrain elements. 
At last, there are the entrance and the exit of the level.

The hero takes up a 1x1 cell, and can move in all 4 directions. The hero only
fully sees the objects that he has line of sight to (there is no view direction,
so the hero view cone is 360 degrees), and all else is only seen as a fainter
outline of the terrain. However, at the start of a room it is fully hidden by
the for of war, and the hero has to see the terrain once for it's outlines to
be memorized. The hero can cover 1 cell in X amount of time, but it can be
decreased by high agility, and increased due to low stamina or a heavy load of
loot. When the hero stands still, the time is considered frozen, and when he
moves, it advances by the move duration.

== Character stats ==
As mentioned above, the character has hp, mp, stamina, strength, agility and
intelligence. 

HP is the amount of damage the player can take before dying. It
can be diminished by taking damage from enemies and environmental hazards, and
from status effects like bleed and poison. Some dialogue encounters can also 
result in hp loss. The player can regain hp by drinking potions, progressing to
the next room, using the healing spell or as a result of certain encounters.

MP is the amount of mana the character has for using spells. It is diminished
by using spells, debufs from enemies and by poisoning and fatigue, or by
certain encounters. It can be replenished using mana potions and
as a result of certain encounters.

Stamina is the amount of strength the player has for performing physical 
actions. It is diminished by using physical attacks, by status effects like
bleed and fatigue, and as a result of certain encounters. It can also be
decreased by spells. It can be replenished by resting and between levels.

Strength is the level of the physical power of the character. It decreases the
penalty to the speed from a heavy loot load, increases physical attack damage,
especially for strength-based moves, increases the effectiveness of blocking
moves, and reduces the probability of bleed and stun. It can also decrese the
stamina cost of strength-based attacks.
High levels of strength may also play a role in different encounters.

Agitlity is the level of speed, nimbleness and skill of the character. It 
increases the hit chance of the character's moves, especially the ag-based
ones, decreases the chance of the character getting hit, and increases movement
speed. It can also decrease the stamina cost of dex-based attacks. Again, high
levels of agility may be useful in dialogue encounters.

Intelligence if the level of magical skill and learnedness of the character. 
It increases the spell damage, hit chance and cast chance, it decreases the 
probability of being poisoned or cursed with fatigue. At high levels it can
also decrease the mana cost of certain spells. Again, can be used in dialogues.

HP, MP or Stamina caps can be increased upon finding a stat upgrade crystal
(green one), and str, dex or int can be increased upon finding a char upgrade
crystal (yellow one).

== Inventory ==

There are no unique loot peices to be found, since all the environment seems to
be trying to punish the thief, rather than reward him. However, throughout the 
levels mana potions and health potions are scattered, and the hero can pick
them up to his inventory. The hero can never carry more than X of each, but 
the strength of the potions may increase from room to room. The hero can also
pick up different keys, of which he can carry an unlimited amount, and they are
listed by name in the inventory. The keys may be used for opening certain doors,
and may break upon usage, break after a certain number of usages, or not break
at all. Lastly, pseudo-keys can be found: these are items, that the hero can
use in certain dialogue encounters (for example, a hero may find a ritual knife,
then stumble upon an altar before a sealed gate, and use the knife to cut his
hand and offer his blood as sacrifice, prompting the gates to open). These items
are useless outside encounters. 

The player constantly sees the amount of potions, that he has, and upon pressing
I he can open the inventory menu, where one can scroll through all items and
read descritions, if they are given.

== Combat & Moves ==

Example combat encounter look (hero vs one-eyed imp):

     /    
 o  /        <o> /
 -->        ---\/  
 |              \
/ >            / \

When the character enters combat, a window with the drawings of the
character and the enemy. Over their heads their health, mana, stamina and status
effects are displayed. In another window below there is a menu of all 
available moves, offensive, defensive, and magical (spells), which can be 
offensive, defensive, or equivalent to item use. And, in another window below 
this one, one can see the description of the highlighted move. The flow of the
figth consists of rounds, and before each round both sides choose a move to
perform or an item to use. On the right side of the combat widow a combat log
is displayed.

If both sides choose a defensive move, nothing really happens 
(enemies just cautiously size each other up). If one chooses an offensive move,
and the other chooses a defensive one, the defence will be considered a reaction
to the offense, and they will play out simultaneously. If both sides choose an
offensive move or to use an item, a roll-off (modified by the dexterity levels
of the sides) will decide, who's move shall be executed first.

Once the moves are chosen, animations are played depicting the moves and 
reactions to them, the combat log is updated and the stats of the sides are
updated. After that, if the combat has not ended, the next round starts.

All physical moves use up stamina, all spells use up mana. The combat is
finished in 2 cases:
1) One of the sides loses all health, and dies
2) The hero may try to escape combat, which takes up stamina and is not 
    guaranteed

If the enemy was defeated, the combat encounter zone ceases to exist.

All the fights are 1v1, however, it is possible that a sequence of enemies 
may attack the hero within one encounter, however the fights will be considered
separate.

== Enemies ==

The enemies have the same kind of stats, characteristics and moves 
(though some have unique moves, that the hero can never unlock), as the 
hero, and behave symmetrically in combat, but are controlled by behaviour 
scripts. These scripts can vary in complexity from a simple "spam one attack"
for zombies and mindless beasts, to a more complex pattern, which takes into
account the hero's current state and the moves that the hero previously
performed in the fight, and could be used for a learned necromancer or a
sophisticated demon. All enemies have an avatar, and (hopefully) some
animations for moves and reactions to come with it.

== Dialogues ==

The dialogues, like fights, also pop up as separate UI when triggered from the 
map. However, here the structure is much simpler: there is a written description
of what is happening, and below it a list of responses to choose from. Some
responses may have requirements, like a minimal characteristic level, 
a certain item in the inventory, or enough hp/mana/stamina. Some may also be
probabilistic: the chance of success may not be 100%.

The encouner may end in many different ways, depending on the design.
